How's it going everyone? In this video,
we are going to talk about how to trade
inversion fair value gaps or IFEGs.
Let's get into the PDF. So, the first
thing you have to understand is what is
a fair value gap. A fair value gap is a
three candlestick pattern, 1 2 3, in
which the wick of candle one and the
wick of candle three do not overlap,
leaving a gap. So, this is an example of
a bearish fair value gap and this is an
example of a bullish fair value gap.
Now, an inversion fair value gap is when
this fair value gap is not respected and
swiftly closed over. So, you can see
here we have a nice expansion candle
closing over that fair value gap, which
creates an inversion fair value gap. So,
now what should have been resistance is
now going to become support and what is
once support is now resistance. So, from
here, now I can anticipate price to
continue higher in this bullish trend or
lower in this bearish trend.
Now, what is the mistake that most
people make when trading inversion fair
value gaps? Is that they fail to look at
the higher time frames. They do not
understand swing points and they're
simply trading a pattern. So, they're
looking for some sort of sweep, an
inversion, and then they're essentially
pattern trading this. So, you can see
here, that is what happens. We take out
a high, we have an inversion. If you
take an entry here, you're going to get
stopped out. Now, what would look like
if you looked at the higher time frames?
So, if you use time frame alignment and
look at the higher time frame, you can
see if you're going to be trading
inversions, you want to be understanding
candle two and wick size, but you're
trading candle two. So, you want to wait
for a candle that supports expansion
lower. So, you can see we have candle
two here sweeping out the high of candle
one. So, that's that important liquidity
at a higher time frame key level. We
have a small wick which supports
expansion. So, then when we get this
inversion, then we can anticipate this
trend to continue lower. So, what do we
need to look for a valid inversion setup
within the fractal model? We need a
candle two which supports expansion,
which means we need a small wick. So,
right here, I will be looking for a
sweep of candle one's high or low, a
small wick, and then an inversion. Now,
if you want extra confluence, then look
for an SMT between candle one's high and
candle two's high.
So, let's get into TradingView and go
over a few examples of this.
So, here we are in our first example.
We're on EUR/USD on the 15-minute chart.
If you notice, we have a fair value gap
right here. So, let's see what happens.
You can see we do create an inversion
here. So, are we interested in this? No.
Why is that? Well, we need to go back to
what we learned in the PDF. If we don't
have a candle which supports expansion,
which this previous one didn't, we're
then waiting for a candle two to form.
So, you can see we want a sweep of this
previous high in order to be looking for
a short setup, right? So, we have not
swept that out. This is just simply a
consolidation.
Let's see if we can go take out this
high.
We do. Now, do we create an inversion?
Let's see. Nope, we do not. So, there is
no valid setup here to trade the
reversal because we lack the relevant
level on this inversion. We never
created an inversion here. Now, this
candle does not support expansion, but
it doesn't have a wick. So, this can be
used as a drawn liquidity, but we would
want to wait for a new candle open. So,
here we have a new candle open and we
take out the previous candle's high, as
you can see here. So, do we have an
inversion? Well, we don't have a fair
value gap until down here. So, let's see
if we do get aggressive displacement
lower here.
You can see we do not and we make a new
high. So, now you can see we're sweeping
out a short-term high above this
previous 4-hour high. And what do we
have right in here? An inversion. So, we
can go ahead and mark that out right
here. And let's see what happens.
And there you can see we have an
inversion and a change in the state of
delivery, which means it is valid to be
looking for a move lower here. You can
see how this inversion has a lot more
context. We're above the previous 4-hour
high. We have a sweep of a short-term
high, a change in the state of delivery,
and an inversion, and we have failure
swings below, as well as this candle
with no wick. So, let's see how this
looks.
You can see once we open the new candle,
we get that continuation lower.
So, just to review, we want to make sure
we have a sweep of a higher time frame
candle and then an inversion. Right? So,
you can see we sweep out the previous
candle's high and then we have an
inversion. Now, if we have SMT here,
that would be an even better confluence,
but we do not in this case.
So, let's get into another example.
So, here we are in our next example. You
can see we've had a nice reversal lower
running out these consolidation lows on
the left with multiple candles of
expansion. We could look to see a new
phase of price. Let's see what happens
here. If we're going to want to look for
an inversion, what do we want to see? A
sweep of this previous low or with SMT
and then an inversion.
You can see we do get the sweep of that
previous low right here. Now, do we get
an inversion? You can see there are
multiple fair value gaps here. So, in
this case, I want to use all of those
fair value gaps and treat it like one
big fair value gap.
And you can see we do not go and just
close through it. So, this is a case
where when we fail to have a nice
V-shape reversal, this is where I want
to avoid price. Even if this was to work
out, price is just consolidating here.
And many times when price does run
higher, it's just running out the highs
of that consolidation to then go lower.
So, even if this goes higher, I'm not
interested in this type of move because
it is not meeting the requirements for
my model. So, just to review, this is
something that if I do see it, I'm going
to avoid it because it is not high
probability for me and I'd want to see
another run of the lows before a move
higher. So, here we are in our next
example. We are on gold on the 3-minute
chart with the 30-minute candles on the
indicator here. Now, what do we notice
here? Well, we are in a bearish move
here in a consolidation. So, I'm going
to wait for the consolidation lows to be
taken out before I look to trade to the
highs, as my phases of price videos talk
about. Let's wait for these lows to get
ran out. And there they get ran out. So,
we could be looking for an inversion to
trade this higher as we have swept out
this previous candle's low. Now, what do
we notice about this specific example?
Do we have a small wick here that
supports expansion? We do not, right? We
are not opening up around this low,
making a small wick, and then looking to
trade that higher, right? It is opening,
trading higher first, and then expanding
lower. This is a bearish candle. So, if
we are going to form a reversal, I'm not
expecting it to be an expansion candle.
I'm just expecting it to go back towards
its opening price and form a reversal
candle. So, where would our inversion
be? Once again, these two fair value
gaps right here added together. Let's
see what happens.
And you can see we do get a pretty nice
close through that area. Now, this is a
case where, yes, on that closure, I
could look to trade it, but I might as
well just wait for the open of the new
higher time frame candle. So, from here,
I could look to trade it in here on the
open of the next higher time frame
candle, allow my stop loss to reach into
that fair value gap, and then look
towards the other side of the range or
for 2R, or I could look for a
continuation that follows.
So, you can see here, we get another
continuation here. So, you can see we
reach into an important level, this fair
value gap, and then closure over. So, if
you want to use, and what I'm talking
about here is an inversion in place of a
change in the state of delivery, that is
something you can do and still look to
trade the continuation. Or you can also
look to trade the reversal. But, the
main lesson I want you to pull from this
is when we have a large opposing run,
generally that expansion's going to wait
for the next higher time frame candle.
Let's see how this plays out.
And you can see we do get that move
higher and either of those entries would
have worked. So, just to review, we have
the sweep of the previous low, an
inversion. This candle doesn't support
expansion as it has a large opposing
run. So, then generally I want to wait
for the open of the next higher time
frame candle to either just take an
entry or look for a continuation entry.
Let's go through a whole top-down
example here where we will get a daily
bias and then align that with a lower
time frame fractal model and then use
inversions with that. So, here you can
see we have multiple days of expansion
and a consolidation.
After 3 days of expansion, I don't want
to trade in the same direction. So, I
will generally be looking for a
reversal. Now, we're going to form a
reversal here, where are we going to
form that? Off of previous day high. So,
looking for a previous day high sweep,
let's see if we get that on the 4-hour
chart here. So, here you can see on the
4-hour chart, we get a nice candle two
closure sweeping out a previous high.
So, we have a candle two closure at a
point of interest and a shallow wick
supporting expansion lower on the daily
candle. So, what would we want to look
for? Well, with the 4-hour chart, we can
go down to the 15-minute chart to look
for our fractal model and we can use
inversions on the lower time frame here.
So, here we are on the 15-minute time
frame with the 4-hour chart on the
right. And what do we notice? If we
wanted to look for that reversal on the
previous day high, we could have used
this inversion right here with this
small fair value gap. Or we can be
looking for a continuation. Now, what
would this continuation look like? Well,
we can use an inversion as well. So,
let's see if we get a continuation in
this next candle.
Well, it's kind of hard to trust it,
right? If this sells down, you want to
see a consolidation or retracement.
That's a V-shape reversal. So, ideally
we make a new high. This is a
consolidation.
So, what could we anticipate? A new
candle two once we get this closure.
So, here we get this closure. We have a
new high and we make a new high here.
So, if we're going to remain in respect
to this high and trade lower, we'd want
to see a reversal here forming a candle
two. And then what could we use? An
inversion.
So, marking out those fair value gaps or
the series of fair value gaps, using
that as our change in the state of
delivery.
Do we get a closure through those
levels?
And no, we do not, right? So, we save
ourselves a loss here because we're
waiting for a closure through both of
those fair value gaps. And that's why I
would use the series of fair value gaps
and not just one. So, what do we have
now? We now have a new high being made.
So, what do we have? One fair value gap.
So, we keep the same idea, right? We're
still in respect to around 50% of this
higher time frame candle. Let's see if
we get an inversion here.
No, not yet. We'd kind of need it to
close in one more candle. There it goes,
right? So, the one rule I have is if it
rejects it once, that's fine as long as
we quickly close back below it. But if
we continue to fail and form a
consolidation, then I want to see a new
high. Now, this is okay for me, so we
can go ahead and take an entry,
and put our stop on that swing point or
on the high, and then look for 2R or
back towards that lower end of the
range.
And you can see we do go ahead and get
2R. We almost get stopped out there, so
that is something to be mindful of in
terms of stop loss placement. But this
is a whole top-down example where if we
go look at the daily chart one more
time, what do we have? We have price
with three expansion candles into a
point of interest. And then the next day
we are forming a reversal because we
have a small opposing run. We go down to
the hourly, look at the structure in
here.
You can see we have a small opposing
run, which is the most important part as
this candle supports expansion. A small
opposing run, a change in the state of
delivery, and then this is a
continuation lower. Now, I just showed
how we used the 4-hour and 15-minute
model with this, but you can also use,
for instance, the hourly and 5-minute
model in here. You can see we have a
candle three closure in here, which is
actually an ideal candle three closure,
and you could be looking to short in
here. So, you can also take a look at
that on the 5-minute chart. And you can
see how that works, and you could also
use an inversion in there.
So, with that, I hope you found this
video helpful. If you have any questions
or comments, please leave them below and
I'll look to get to those. But just in
review, if you're looking to trade
inversions, you want to be doing that in
a higher time frame expansion candle.
So, you want a candle with a small wick.
If it has a large wick, it's okay to
look at it, but generally that expansion
happens in candle three. And with that,
you want to see a nice V-shape reversal
and ideally SMT.
I hope you guys have a great rest of
your day, and I'll see you guys next
time. Have a good one.